In this video, we're going to learn how to determine if a matrix is invertible or not.
So to me, the right way to think about invertibility is to think about linear transformations.
So let's suppose we have a linear transformation. From, say,
R^m to R^n,
we can call it.
So we want to know if this linear transformation is invertible. So I want to know if we can
find a map going the other way, which if it exists, we would call it
T inverse that undoes what T does. So in other words,
if T sends a vector v from R^m to w in R^n then T
inverse is gonna take that w and send it right back to where it came from, namely v.
So if we want an inverse to exist, we need to know what's going to happen to every
element of R^n. So in other words, every element
of R^n has to be mapped to by something in R^m.
And if I rephrase what I've just said, we said that T has to be surjective.
So to have any hope of an inverse existing, I have to have somewhere to send everything
in R^n back to. So it had to be mapped to by something from
R^m by T. So
the other issue that could happen is I need to have somewhere to go back to. But
one thing that could go wrong is if I have choices of where to go back to. So if I have two things in R^m
that T maps to the same place, then I don't know where I'm going to send
the thing from  R^n back to. So what we need to happen
is T needs to send different vectors to different places. And what I've just said
there is that T has to be bijective.
So if we want a matrix to be invertible,
the corresponding linear transformation must be by bijective.
I want to make one quick note before we look at an example. So note that
when I say T has to be surjective, that tells us a little bit about m and
in particular it tells us that m has to be at least as big as
n. If the dimension of our domain isn't big enough, we won't be all to
fill up all of the codomain. And we also know something
from T being injective. If m was bigger
than n, then we could not be injective. We would have to squish something down
to fit it inside of R^n. So we know if
we are surjective, n better be at least as big as m. And if we're injected, it can't
be any bigger. So for bijective, m and n
have to be the same. So in terms of matrices, the only matrices that have any hope
of being invertible are square matrices. So let's look at an example.
So if I don't write down a square matrix, this is gonna be very easy, so
I'll write down a square matrix.
So here is a three by three matrix corresponding to a map from R^3 to R^3.
We want to know if it's invertible or not. So the question we're asking ourselves is,
is the corresponding linear transformation bijective?
Well, the way we answer that question is to look at the reduced row echelon form of A.
Which in this case, I type in a calculator.
It has produced.
The identity matrix. And so in particular, we have a pivot in every column,
so our map is injective and we have a pivot in every row, so our
map is surjective. So our linear map.
Is bijectivee. So our Matrix
A is invertible.
In the next video, we'll talk about how to actually find the inverse of a once we know that it's
invertible.